---
layout: post
title: The Programmer
---

     Computer science eludes the vast majority of people due to how recent it is, how quickly it develops, and how much it has changed the world. Bill Gates’ dream of ‘a computer on every desk and in every home’ became a reality near the end of the 20th century, connecting the ordinary person with the computing world. However, a layer of abstraction has quietly settled in between the user and the computer, allowing computers to be used even by those without technical experience. Media, in an effort to present information in an easy-to-swallow manner, obfuscates computer science in the absence of context and adds in fantastical attributes of intimidation and mystery. The most well known signs related to computer science are associated with hacking, and hackers. Signs come in various shapes and forms, but they all point towards one absurd myth: computer science is the language of the lawless digital world, the internet, and such knowledge, along with its wielders, should be feared.

     The technological history of computer science has created many signs as old practices fade into antiquity. Take, for example, the programmer who sit in front of multiple screens watching green lines of code flicker across rapidly. This depiction of computer science is common in popular culture, and frequently pops up to indicate the presence of programming. In The Matrix, the fundamental base for the matrix is represented with lines of 1s and 0s coloured lime-green. The myth presented in this technological case is supported by two symbols: binary code and the original unix-style command line. Historically, binary code denoted the two position of a switch, on and off, and was the basis of computing science. Binary sequences portray information which is too complex for ordinary people, and those who are able to understand it are recognized as people with power, as shown in The Matrix as individuals who were omnipotent. As for the command line, it acts as a window which bridges people with technology. Unix-style command lines were initially styled green due to the technological constraints of the time; the cathode-ray tube screens used before RGB-display only produced green dots of light onto the screen. With the push towards personal computers, computers became more user-friendly and the hideous command lines have slowly phased out for the screens and windows which are easy to understand today. History is easily romanticised, and the old style of the command line is elevated to the status of myth. What was once simply the way people used computers now becomes a simple indicator that some complex operation the average person can’t comprehend is happening.

    Beyond signs created by technological history, there are those created by cultural history. Take the Guy Fawkes mask, for example. In this picture from Business Insider, we see the visage of a suspicious, dark-clad man in a smoky room wearing sunglasses over the Guy Fawkes mask. Despite the photo looking as though it was taken in a haunted house, the picture is posted as representation for an e-mail hacker, with the most notable feature being the Guy Fawkes mask. The history of Guy Fawkes stems back to the failed Gunpowder Plot of 1605, a conspiracy aiming towards installing a catholic head-of-state. The Guy Fawkes mask was created as an artistic stylization of the man, because he was the most well-known conspirator and was executed for failed attempt. This second-order semiotic, associated with the treason, then graduated into a third-order semiotic through the movie V for Vendetta, where the mask itself first appeared in popular culture. The mask represents the faceless vigilante that protects the common people. 4chan, a popular online image-board, further evolves the mask into a fourth-order semiotic by using it for anonymity in Project Chanology. Project Chanology was a protest movement against the Church of Scientology and its practices, initiated by the uncentralized hacktivist group Anonymous. Because of Anonymous’ history of grey hat practices, the Guy Fawkes mask today is a sign for computer programmers, but more specifically hackers. The Guy Fawkes mask reminds us that the internet is an unconforming anarchistic landscape, and programming is what has brought about this reality. The myth introduces a fear of communism; a digital society where everybody is equal under the guise of anonymity. Besides the Guy Fawkes mask, 4chan has created a plethora of signs based on the nature of the site as an anonymous image-board where users can post without risk.

    This mythology can be dispelled simply with knowledge and research, because the myth is simply a dumbing down of of science and reason; the myth pushes the truth aside for the sake of making something easier to comprehend. However, easy-to-understand science has devolved into downright wrong information. The media subjugates the term ‘hacker’ to negative connotations which portray a shadowy figure, despite ‘cracker’ being the actual terminology for someone who circumvents security and performs computer intrusion. 4chan, as one of the former hubs of the internet and the birthplace of many internet-related myths, has seemingly become a myth itself due to its strong connection with hacking. In the CNN broadcast related to the investigation of the iCloud leak which revealed nude pictures of celebrities, random filler words such as ‘the ether’ and ‘password app’ are thrown around in lieu of explanation. A news sources responsibility is to deliver accurate information about recent events to their viewers. Yet here an expert, the CNN technical analyst, refer to a website as though it were some disgruntled hacker working for Apple. The programming myth’s distortion extends further to the point of ridiculousness, when a 14-year-old student was accused of hacking after logging into a teacher’s account due to the teacher’s inability to protect their password, to change the computer’s background image. The student was arrested and charged with a felony for a simple prank due to him ‘hacking’ the computer, where he was charged not for what he did do, but for what he could have done.. The perception of computer science differs so greatly from the actual truth, yet what is frightening is that some people earnestly believe in the mythological depiction.
        
    There definitely is magic in computers, with its humble origin in logic gates which has evolved now into incredible widespread usage. However, the idea of computer science has deviated greatly from the reality because of the presentation of computer science in media. Of course, no programmers are like those portrayed in stock photos, and computer science isn’t about bashing the keyboard while black console windows open, but the myth embeds these attributes into the idea of a programmer, and into computer science as a whole. The myth exists for the sole purpose of turning a complex topic into something simpler. However, the simplification can create incorrect connotations for computer science. Concepts, such as internet anonymity and net neutrality are easier to attack when negative stigma from lack of knowledge can be attached to them. These concepts are what makes the internet a fair space; internet anonymity allows everyone to have equal say in a discussion, without elements such as reputation or risk affecting the strength of the argument, and net neutrality ensures that nobody has power deciding who can go where on the internet. However, by dumbing down the science, it is easier to disregard computer science as dangerous. Even beyond computer science, mythology in science and the distortion of scientific evidence can cause negative effects, such as claiming that vaccinations cause autism. The dumbing down of science with mythology is something that we should strive to eliminate from discussions of science.