---
layout: post
title: stuff
---
BLOG
FORUMS
CONTACT
ABOUT
MY THOUGHTS
LOLICON: ANIME HISTORY
12/27/2014 0 Comments
 
 Picture
Picture
Why Lolicon? Love it or hate it, itÅfs here.

It's no surprise to say that younger characters in anime have been used provocatively. The question to answer then is why? These are my thoughts and interpretations to give some sort of explanation as to why. If you love lolicon, great. If you hate it, great. This is just interpreting history. 

Disclaimer: This analysis is attempting to analyze the sexual preferences of Japanese people from the last sixty or so years. Western thinking bias toward sexual norms is prominent from my background. As such, I will attempt to provide the least amount of personal bias in accessing the issue. Thank you. 

Chronophilia: Paraphilia, Pedophilia and Infantophilia. An American Understanding of Pedophiliac Attractions

The analysis of human sexuality presented in this section is specifically based on research done by psychologist and sexologist John Money. Among his research, ÅechronophiliaÅf was a term he used to refer to sexual attraction based on age.[1] The relevant information about chronophilia to this argument will be displayed. 

Chronophilia: Erotic attraction based on specific age ranges.
Paraphilia: ÅgThe experience of intense sexual arousal to atypical objects, situations, or individuals.Åh[2]

Pedophilia: ÅgThe act or fantasy on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children, generally 11 or younger."[3]

Infantophilia: Recent sub-category of pedophilia, usually with an emphasis on children 5 years or younger. [4]

                        Hebephilia: ÅgPrimary erotic interest in individuals between the ages of 11-14.[5]

                        Ephebophilia: ÅgPrimary erotic attraction to youth between the ages of 15-19.Åh[6]

Paraphilia is the grand category of multiple different sexual disorders. The classification of sexual deviation is determined by a cultural understanding of ÅenormalÅf sexual expression and acts which are essentially beyond that spectrum. Homosexuality was included in the Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) until the American Psychiatric Association removed it in 1974.

Pedophilia is included under the paraphilia grand category. Looking at pedophiliaÅfs etymology, it comes the Greek": ÉŒÉø?? (pais), meaning "child", and É”É«É…?Éø (philia), "friendly love" or "friendship."[7] However, the Greeks did not use the term in the way itÅfs used today. The term entered sexual discourse with the book ÅgPsychopathia SexualisÅh in 1886 by the Viennese psychiatrist Richard von Krafft-Ebing.[8] The term only became widely used during the early 20th century. To define Pedophilia, it generally refers to attraction to children under the age of 11. The person diagnosed with this mental disorder has to be at least 16 years of age and at least 5 years older than the target of sexual interest.[9] 

Infantophilia, a more recent term, has entered the psychiatric discourse as a sub-category of pedophilia looking at attraction to specifically children 5 and under. 

Hebephilia and Ephebophilia refer to an attraction to pubescent and post-pubescent youth, respectively.[10] They can be differentiated by the preferred age: ephebophilia and hebephilia I (age of early puberty), II (middle adolescence) and III (late adolescence).

Lolita: Lolicon History

Lolicon (ÉçÉäÉRÉì) has roots in a book published in Paris 1955. Written by Vladimir Nobokov, ÅgLolitaÅh tells the story of a manÅfs sexual ambitions with a 12 year old girl he called Lolita. The real name of the girl in the story was Dolores "Dolly" Haze, daughter of Charlotte Haze. The interesting aspect of his writing here is that the female name ÅgLolaÅh is a form of Dolores or Charlotte.[11] The diminutive form of ÅgLolaÅh is ÅgLolita.Åh[12] Diminutive is defined as: ÅgGrammar. pertaining to or productive of a form denoting smallness, familiarity, affection, or triviality, as the suffix -let, in droplet from drop.Åh[13] The diminutive version of ÅglolaÅh is based around romantic feelings. In this way, the origins of the word ÅgLolitaÅh come from a unique expression of love and sexual desire. The quote by Vladimir below illustrates this point.

ÅgLolita, light of my life, fire of my loins. My sin, my soul. Lo-lee-ta: the tip of the tongue taking a trip of three steps down the palate to tap, at three, on the teeth. Lo. Lee. Ta.Åh[14]

The quote expresses just how much passion was involved in every syllable of the nickname. Connecting each of the syllables of Lolita with his very soul and existence.

The novelÅfs expression of socially unacceptable love in a western culture definitely had a lasting impact with the adoption of the term into western culture. By 1960, ÅgLolitaÅh was in wide spread figurative use in western culture to denote underage sexual desires.[15] However, the term didnÅft enter Japanese culture until the 70Åfs. The entrance of the term into the Japanese nomenclature can most likely be attributed to ÅgThe Lolita Complex.Åh Translated into Japanese and distributed to the Japanese public in the early 70Åfs, this can be seen as the starting point for the term ÅgLolicon.Åh[16] Possibly the first use of Åglolita complexÅh in manga can be seen in Shinji Wada with his Stumbling upon a Cabbage Field (ÉLÉÉÉxÉcî®Ç≈Ç¬Ç‹Ç∏Ç¢Çƒ Kyabetsu-batake de Tsumazuite), an Alice in Wonderland manga parody in 1974.[17] The shortening of the term to ÅgloliconÅh came later.[18] Lolicon is a portmanteau of Lolita Complex where ÅgcomÅh is expressed as ÅgconÅh because of linguistic differences between Japanese and English. Strictly speaking though, ÅgLolita ComplexÅh in Japanese refers to the paraphilia itself (sexual deviation as noted above).[19] 

Lolicon: Cultural Interpretation of ItÅfs Origin

The oversexualization of women has been used to promote the sale of products in a number of capitalized societies. Japan in the early 1900Åfs used women in Ågpink-collarÅh jobs, such as elevator operators, advertising on machine magazines, clerk women at new department stores to attract men to these places. Remember, at this time the introduction of new technology was for many people a stark contrast in understanding how the world worked. A good modern comparison could be looking at how an elderly man would look at the use of a new Iphone. Women viewed as Åghomely presencesÅh were used in the new consumer culture to help facilitate the transition from ÅgoldÅh to ÅgnewÅh. The destruction of Japan during WWII and subsequent United States occupation lead to a ground-up rebuilding of many Japanese industries. Scholars argue that by the 1970Åfs, the years of social upheaval and economic recovery were over which lead to a rise of consumerism.[20] The use of the "shoujoÅh to advertise products in this era was a desirable contrast between the Ågwork-centricÅh needs of a modern reality and consumptive pleasures.[21] The use of young girls in this period contrasted with the turn of the century is the fleeting illusion that was the shoujo. Many scholars claim that during this time the shoujo represented a gender disconnected from needs of heterosexual reproduction.[22] The idealization of ÅgYoujoÅh (little girls) and ÅgShoujoÅh in their distinctly disconnected gender allows for the exploitation of age to drive an idealized Eros (sexual desire).[23] The use of age in this way can be seen as a commodity. The need to drive consumer sales in reference to social desires can be expressed in how the idealized shoujo is pushed to a younger and younger age to find a Ågnew commodityÅh distinctly different from the one before. The new image of desire in society created for some a fictional ideal of the women clearly disconnected with reality. The unexpected fanbase for magical girl anime during the 70Åfs by an older demographic can be interpreted as consumers desiring that ideal. Scholars have asserted that the magical girl anime genre in the 70Åfs can be interpreted as the roots of the lolicon anime.[24] The beginning of the so-called ÅgKawaii CrazeÅh in Japanese culture can be seen in the number of magical girl anime produced during this time.[25]
 
1970 ? Maho No Mako-chan (ÅgMagical Mako-chanÅh) 
1972 ? Mahotsukai Chappy (ÅgWitch ChappyÅh) 
1974 ? Majoko Megu-chan (ÅgWitch Meg-chanÅh) 
1978 ? Majoko Tickle (ÅgWitch TickleÅh) 
1979 ? Hana No Ko LunLun (ÅgFlower Girl LunLunÅh) 

The expression of a stabilized economic machine as well as the quelling of many social issues allowed for the creation of a distinctly disconnected gender. This disconnected gender was idealized and used by companies to further sales by exploiting age. The ÅgKawaii CrazeÅh beginning and the unexpected audience for the magical girl anime represent the desire for a new fictional ideal.


Lolicon: Manga Origins, Pornographic Restrictions and Public Attention

An early propagator of the lolicon manga in Japan is Hideo Azuma during the early 80Åfs. His manga ÅgCybeleÅh was illustrated specifically to cater to lolicon desires.[26][27] AzumaÅfs works become so popular because they touched on turning younger girls into sexual objects. Much of pornography during this time focused on older women as sexual objects. Scholars also assert that the popularity of lolicon can be interpreted in terms of age. In which, age was used to create a softer feminine character.[28] The censorship laws during this time were based on Victorian style attitudes toward sex. Issues such as genitalia or the bedroom were considered sacred but concepts such as incest or age were allowed to slip by. Scholars assert that censorship laws during this time allowed for Ågerotic manga with lolicon flavorÅh to flourish.[29][30] The issue of taboo subjects may have created a circle of desire. Men come into contact with Anime or Manga that features prominent underage characters, sexual desire disconnected with reality manifests, sexual satisfaction, and repeat. The very nature of the taboo subject makes it, usually, impossible to satisfy in reality. Public attention was brought to lolicon when Tsutomu Miyazaki kidnapped and murdered four girls between the ages of 4 and 7 in 1988 and 1989, committing acts of necrophilia with their corpses. The moral panic in the aftermath of this case lead to the arrests of multiple doujinshi as well as the creation of the non-profit organization CASPAR whose goal was campaigning for lolicon regulation.[31] [32] A bill proposed in 2010 sought to regulate the distribution of lolicon materials by defining the exploitation of Ågnon-existent youthÅh under the age of 18.[33]  The bill was shot down but came up later in December of the same year taking out references to Ågnon-existent youth.Åh[34] The bill passed and would regulate "'manga, anime and other images'...that 'unjustifiably glorify or emphasize' certain sexual or pseudo sexual acts...depictions of 'sexual or pseudo sexual acts that would be illegal in real life.'"[35]  The regulation is specifically targeting books and DVDÅfs and not online materials.  On May 27, 2013, a revised child pornography law was introduced by the Liberal Democratic Party, the New Komei Party and the Japan Restoration Party that would make possession of sexual images of individuals under 18 illegal with a fine of 1 million yen and less than a year in jail.[36] This bill did not pass until June of 2014 only after removing the references to regulation of lolicon anime/manga.[37] 

Conclusion: 

The desire for underage girls can be looked at from a perspective of chronophilia specifically targeting certain age ranges. ÅgLolitaÅh is the root of the modern understanding of the meaning of Ågloli.Åh The effects of the strong emergence of the consumerism culture in Japan during the 70Åfs can be attributed to the exploitation of age to sell products. The result of this exploitation is the creation of a fictional ideal. This fictional ideal was able to be exploited in pornographic material because of Victorian style censorship laws. The negative attention given to it during the late 80Åfs lead to a moral panic where many doujinshi artists were arrested as well as a concentrated movement to regulate the materials. The recent attention to the subject contrasts between government desires for regulation and artists desire for financial gain through their perceived Ågfreedom of speech.Åh




Want more analysis and an interpretation about anime related topics? Take a look at my Youtube Channel ÅgAnime Historian.Åh And as always, thank you for reading my article.

Other Reference Stuff: 

http://www.imageandnarrative.be/index.php/imagenarrative/article/view/127/98
Kumiko Saito (2014). Magic, Sh?jo, and Metamorphosis: Magical Girl Anime and the Challenges of Changing Gender Identities in Japanese Society . The Journal of Asian Studies, 73, pp 143-164. doi:10.1017/S0021911813001708.
Zanghellini, Aleardo. 2009. Underage Sex and Romance in Japanese Homoerotic Manga and Anime. Social & Legal Studies. 18, no. 2: 159-177.
[1] John Money (1986) "Lovemaps: clinical concepts of sexual/erotic health and pathology, paraphilia, and gender transposition of childhood, adolescence, and maturity, ISBN 0-8290-1589-2, pp. 70, 260
[2] American Psychiatric Association (June 2000). Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV (Text Revision). Arlington, VA, USA: American Psychiatric Publishing, Inc. pp. 566?76. doi:10.1176/appi.books.9780890423349. ISBN 978-0-89042-024-9.
[3] ""pedophilia" (n.d.)". The American Heritage Stedman's Medical Dictionary. Retrieved 2010-09-23. The act or fantasy on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children.
[4] Greenberg DM, Bradford J, Curry S (1995). "Infantophilia--a new subcategory of pedophilia?: a preliminary study". Bull Am Acad Psychiatry Law 23 (1): 63?71. PMID 7599373..
[5] Blanchard R, Lykins AD, Wherrett D, Kuban ME, Cantor JM, Blak T, Dickey R, Klassen PE (June 2009). "Pedophilia, hebephilia, and the DSM-V". Arch Sex Behav 38 (3): 335?50. doi:10.1007/s10508-008-9399-9. PMID 18686026.
[6] Blanchard, R.; Lykins, A. D.; Wherrett, D.; Kuban, M. E.; Cantor, J. M.; Blak, T.; Dickey, R.; Klassen, P. E. (2008). "Pedophilia, hebephilia, and the DSM?V".Archives of Sexual Behavior 38 (3): 335?350.doi:10.1007/s10508-008-9399-9. PMID 18686026.
[7] Liddell, H.G., and Scott, Robert (1959). Intermediate Greek-English Lexicon. ISBN 0-19-910206-6.
[8] Von Krafft-Ebing, Richard (1922). Psychopathia Sexualis. Translated to English by Francis Joseph Rebman. Medical Art Agency. pp. 552?560. ISBN 1-871592-55-0.
[9] See section F65.4 Paedophilia. "The ICD-10 Classification of Mental and Behavioural Disorders Diagnostic criteria for research World". World Health Organization/ICD-10. 1993. Retrieved 2012-10-10. B. A persistent or a predominant preference for sexual activity with a prepubescent child or children. C. The person is at least 16 years old and at least five years older than the child or children in B.
[10] Blanchard, R. Blanchard, R., Lykins, A. D., Wherrett, D., Kuban, M. E., Cantor, J. M., Blak, T., Dickey, R., & Klassen, P. E. (2008). Paedophilia, hebephilia, and the DSM?V. Archives of Sexual Behavior.doi:10.1007/s10508-008-9399-9.
[11] lola. Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com Unabridged. Random House, Inc.http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/lola (accessed: December 26, 2014).
[12] lolita. Dictionary.com. Online Etymology Dictionary. Douglas Harper, Historian.http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/lolita (accessed: December 26, 2014).
[13] diminutive. Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com Unabridged. Random House, Inc.http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/diminutive (accessed: December 26, 2014).
[14] Lolita_light_of_my_life_fire_of_my. Dictionary.com. Columbia World of Quotations. Columbia University Press, 1996.http://quotes.dictionary.com/Lolita_light_of_my_life_fire_of_my (accessed: December 26, 2014).
[15] lolita. Dictionary.com. Online Etymology Dictionary. Douglas Harper, Historian.http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/lolita (accessed: December 26, 2014).
[16] Galbraith, Patrick W. (2009). The Otaku Encyclopedia: An Insider's guide to the subculture of Cool Japan. Foreword by Schodt, Frederik L. and Photography by Katsuhide, Asuki (First ed.). Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha International. pp. 128?129. ISBN 978-4-7700-3101-3.
[17] Shinji Wada, "Kyabetsu-batake de Tsumazuite" in Bessatsu Margaret, June, 1974, p.121
[18] Galbraith, Patrick W. (2009). The Otaku Encyclopedia: An Insider's guide to the subculture of Cool Japan. Foreword by Schodt, Frederik L. and Photography by Katsuhide, Asuki (First ed.). Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha International. pp. 128?129. ISBN 978-4-7700-3101-3.
[19] Feitelberg, Rosemary (June 22, 2007). "On the drawing board. (Lehmann Maupin gallery)". Women's Wear Daily. p. 13. Retrieved July 30, 2012. His paintings include a garter-wearing prepubescent maid and a knock-kneed girl in a panty-exposing pose?apparent references to his Lolita complex, or what manga and anime followers refer to as being a 'lolicon.'
[20] Galbraith, Patrick. 2011. Lolicon: The Reality of ÅeVirtual Child PornographyÅf in Japan. Image and Narrative : Online Magazine of the Visual Narrative. 12: 83-119.
[21] Ibid.
[22] Ibid.
[23] Ibid.
[24] McCarthy, Helen and Jonathan Clements (1999). The Erotic Anime Movie Guide. Woodstock, NY: Overlook Press. See pp. 43, on lolikon anime.
[25] http://www.angelfire.com/moon/sailormoon19/MagicalGirlGenre.html
[26] Galbraith, Patrick W. (2009). The Otaku Encyclopedia: An Insider's guide to the subculture of Cool Japan. Foreword by Schodt, Frederik L. and Photography by Katsuhide, Asuki (First ed.). Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha International. pp. 128?129. ISBN 978-4-7700-3101-3.
[27] (Japanese) Maruta Hara and Kazuo Shimizu, "The Lolicon D?jinshi Reviews" (ÉçÉäÉRÉììØêléèÉåÉrÉÖÅ[ Rorikon D?jinshi Reby?)[1] in Apple Pie, March, 1982, p.116
[28] Schodt, Frederik L. (1996). "Modern Manga at the End of the Millennium". Dreamland Japan: Writings on Modern Manga. Berkeley, California: Stone Bridge Press. p. 336. ISBN 1-880656-23-X.
[29] Ibid., 54-56.
[30] Zank, Dinah (2010). Kawaii vs. rorikon: The reinvention of the term Lolita in modern Japanese manga. In Comics as a Nexus of Cultures (Jefferson, NC: McFarland). pp.215-216
[31] "Lolicon Backlash in Japan". Anime News Network. January 13, 2005. Retrieved June 7, 2007.
[32] Galbraith, Patrick W. (2009). The Otaku Encyclopedia: An Insider's guide to the subculture of Cool Japan. Foreword by Schodt, Frederik L. and Photography by Katsuhide, Asuki (First ed.). Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha International. pp. 128?129. ISBN 978-4-7700-3101-3.
[33] "Tokyo's 'Nonexistent Youth' Bill Rejected by Assembly". Anime News Network. 2010-11-24. Retrieved 2010-11-28.
[34] "Tokyo's Revised Youth Ordinance Amendment Bill Posted". Anime News Network. 2010-11-22. Retrieved 2010-12-16.
[35] "Tokyo to Resubmit Bill on Sexual Depictions of Youths". Anime News Network. 2010-11-15. Retrieved2010-12-16.
[36] "Japan's Ruling Party to Reintroduce Child Pornography Law Revision".www.animenewsnetwork.com. Retrieved 2013-06-17.
[37] Tom Porter (2014-06-07). "Japan to Ban Child Pornography". www.ibtimes.co.uk. Retrieved2014-06-09.

lolicon.pdf
Download File

0 Comments
DANDERE
12/26/2014 0 Comments
 
 Picture
Picture
Like the tsundere? How about the Dandere? 

Dandere Etymology:

Dandere is a character archetype meaning a Ågperson with a shy exterior with a soft interior.Åh Japanese dictionaries do not have a definition for this term, unlike yandere and tsundere, which makes this a fan-speak term. The term is a portmanteau of the two Japanese words ñŸÇË(danmari) and Ç≈ÇÍÇ≈ÇÍ. ñŸÇËmeans ÅgsilenceÅh and Ç≈ÇÍÇ≈ÇÍ means Åglovestruck.Åh Dandere is the created term.

Dandere: 

A dandere is a character that has a shy exterior while retaining a soft core. The shyness aspect can come from multiple sources:[1]

Newcomer: Be they a new transfer student in a new school, an employee at a new work place, or having escaped their hometown.

The Loner: Might be because of preference or ostracism. Freakishness optional. Jerkass-ness optional.

Home Schooled: Similar to newcomer, the character has grown up or lived away from others. May or may not come with interesting psychological quirks.

Emo: Some sadness like parental abuse (often seen in Dark Magical Girls) or other kind of angst may keep the character from letting anyone close to them.

Shyness: Some characters (like in real life) are insecure of themselves for whatever reason and are not even able to talk to other people (sometimes temporary).

Lack of self-confidence: Similar to the one above, the character may believe he is not worthy of other people's friendship while craving acceptance.

Incompetence: A character may simply lack the social intuition required to connect with others, regardless of how willing or confident they are.

Unattractiveness: The character is physically repulsive and avoided or mistreated because of that.

Of course these sources of shyness can apply to other character types but for the sake of this investigation into the dandere, we will use these as a main starting point for looking at why the dandere is the way they are. Whatever the source of the shyness, in romantic anime the love interest is usually the only one who can melt the veil of shyness. Which leads into an interesting contrast in character types between the dandere and kuudere.

Dandere/Kuudere:

Dandere and Kuudere character types can be very similar and hard to distinguish between the two types. However, the best way to show the main difference between the two characters is in the viewersÅf perception of Ågcoolness.Åh An introverted librarian is a classic example of a dandere. The viewers and the characters in the show view this character as Ågshy.Åh On the other hand, the quiet nature of Saber from Fate/Stay Night is seen less as shy and more as cool. Kuudere can be generalized as being ÅgcoolÅh by either the viewers and/or other characters. Sometimes both the viewers and characters in the show see the character in this way, sometimes not. Obviously, the term has a certain amount of fluidity to it and can really only be explained using distinct examples.

Dandere History:

Dandere is a term thatÅfs an offshoot of the more influential tsundere archetype. Asuka Mizunokouji from Urusei Yatsura (1978-1987) can be considered the first Dandere character in anime/manga. If you guys have a different character in mind for the earliest character, please let me know so I can change this section. Below is a copy and pasted description of this character.[2]

Asuka Mizunokoji (êÖîTè¨òHîÚíπ)

Tobimaro's sister. The very beautiful and petite girl was isolated, according to the Mizonokoji family's tradition, from any and all males from the moment of her birth until the age of 16, at which time an omiai will be held for her to get married. As such, even her brother was unaware of her existence until then.

Thanks to her daily training and the genetics she inherited from her mother, she is insanely strong (once tearing a completely armored tank apart and fashioning it into a makeshift suit of armor on herself with her bare hands), as well as very athletic (being able to run 100 metres within 12 seconds, while wearing her 200 kilogram suit of armour). Nevertheless she is extremely timid and deathly afraid of males (as a result of her isolation), in part because the first one she ever met was Ataru Moroboshi. Now whenever she sees one, she pushes him away, screams "Eek! A maaan!" ("Aa~! Otokoo~!") (Ç†Ç†Å`ÅIÇ®Ç∆Ç±Å`Å`ÅI), and runs in terror at high speed from all males, not heeding any obstacles unfortunate to be in her path (such as buildings).

Two Possible Growth Paths:

If the dandere character is an important character in a story, usually they will receive a certain amount of character growth. These are my two interpretations of the possible paths they may take.

Typical Love Story:

The ÅgtypicalÅh dandere story involves a shy person who feels they cannot express themselves in a particular environment. Usually, desired motive for expression is to find friends or a lover. In this way, we can see that the desired character growth for both the viewers and possibly other characters is to see the character grow out of their introverted personality to express their deredere side. The love story narrative grows the character to come out of their shell to learn to express themselves. The focus is then on how the danmari part of their personality if negative and affecting their ability to function within their particular environment. This can be seen as the typical narrative of character growth for a dandere character. However, I feel there is another way to look at this character type in the same country but under different cultural constraints.

Yamato Nadeshiko:

A Yamato Nadeshiko is a Japanese cultural concept of the perfect woman. She will exemplify the neo-Confucian ideals of filial piety and feudal loyalty. Filial piety basically meaning respect to male figures in society. She will project feminine values of loyalty, domestic ability, wisdom, maturity, and humility. A story existing within traditionalist Japanese cultural constraints may explore the feminist growth of a woman in terms of a cultural understanding. Basically, a narrative of character growth shown during this time would exploring the transition from male rule, both psychologically and physically, to empowerment. Although the Yamato Nadeshiko represents a patrilineal design of a male dominated society, this does not suggest that women had no power. A properly done Yamato Nadeshiko is able to work within the system to create an appearance of subjectivity while having inner strength and wit to get what they want. A dandere character growing from shy and oppressed would turn into an ideal Yamato Nadeshiko. In this way, the dandere would not lose their shy exterior but rather use it to get what they want out of their environment. The deredere part of their personality wouldnÅft be shown so much on the outside but rather a showing of internal growth.

Dandere Narratives:

Tvtropes.org organizes different ways the basic trope of dandere can be manipulated beyond its plain classification.[3]

Basic Trope: A character is quiet and reserved, but also soft and emotional. This character's emotional side that is more prevalent when he/she is with people that make him/her feel comfortable, like her not-boyfriend Bob.

Straight: Alice appears to be The Quiet One, but she has deep emotions she lets out only with people she feel safe with.

Exaggerated: Alice is a stuttering, fretful Nervous Wreck when any sort of social interaction is involved. But through The Power of Friendship, she becomes a natural-born leader, and maybe even grows a spine in the process.

Justified: Alice needs to stay focused and to control her emotions.
Alice has No Social Skills and doesn't know how to properly express herself toward other people. The closest she usually gets to most people is typically from behind a corner.
Alice doesn't have the power of trust going well for her.

Subverted: She turns out to be The Social Expert, and appearing quiet and unnoticed was the best way to test the hero and put her scheme right.

Double Subverted: But it was very agreeable for her, because that's how she would naturally be if she relied on something else than manipulation. And now that she has told the heroes, she can genuinely behave that way.

Parodied: Charlie is in love with Alice. His friends tell him that she is not going to pay attention to him, and she seems uninterested. Charlie's poisonous friend Danny successively convinces him that stalking Is love, that all girls want bad boys and that he should just eat more peanut butter, because peanut is somehow linked to the bee's pollination, and bees are linked with spring, and Saint-Valentine comes in spring. Alice seems unimpressed, and remains stoic, until he kindly asks her to go out with him... at which point she squees and reveals to have been just as much interested.

Zig Zagged: Alice is that way because she's traumatized, but then she heals, but then she realizes it's useful, but then decides just to be natural.

Averted: Alice has no problem talking about her feelings.

Invoked: Bob wants to know if generally pleasant and peaceful heroine Alice is interested in him, but finds her general distant kindness hard to interpret.

Deconstructed: It takes her a lot to talk about her feelings...

Reconstructed: ...But ultimately she does, and everyone succumbs to her charm.

Played For Laughs: Alice is a quiet, emotionless Stalker with a Crush for Bob, who at first sees her as one relationship upgrade away from psycho girlfriend. Then he finally says hi to her, and she suddenly smiles and reveals she's always wanted someone to talk to her...and finally glomps him.

Modern Relevance:

Dandere is certainly a new term. According to Google Trends, the initial wave of interest in the dandere was in December of 2009. However, the term only really took off in April of 2012 and reached its peak in February of 2014. Interest in the terms varies over time but has remained relativity popular.

Thanks for reading! I also have a YouTube channel at ÅgAnime Historian.Åh

Comments, concerns, hateÅcI donÅft care. I love responding to you guys. Put it in the comments section below.

[1] http://allthetropes.wikia.com/wiki/Friendless_Background
[2] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Urusei_Yatsura_characters#Asuka_Mizunokoji
[3] http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/PlayingWith/Dandere
 Picture

Dandere
Download File

0 Comments
TSUNDERE
12/26/2014 0 Comments
 

Tsundere
Download File

0 Comments
NARUTO AND THE REAL NINJA
12/23/2014 0 Comments
 

Naruto and the Real Ninja
Download File

0 Comments
KUUDERE
12/19/2014 0 Comments
 

Kuudere
Download File

0 Comments
ANIME AND THE DISABLED
12/17/2014 0 Comments
 

Anime and the Disabled
Download File

0 Comments
YANDERE
12/17/2014 0 Comments
 

Yandere
Download File

0 Comments
RACISM AGAINST JAPANESE AMERICANS DURING THE EARLY 1900'S AS A POLITICAL REFLECTION.
12/17/2014 0 Comments
 

Japanese-American Essay
Download File

0 Comments
ARCHIVES
March 2015
January 2015
December 2014
JUSTIN HVIDSTEN
Using History to Connect you to Anime.
CATEGORIES
All
CREATE A FREE WEBSITEPOWERED BY 
START YOUR OWN FREE WEBSITE
A surprisingly easy drag & drop site creator. Learn more.

